do you need to learn some different ways
to say thank you more like in native or
maybe you want to learn about culture
and vocabulary related to Thanksgiving
in the United States well we're going to
do all of that coming up what is the I
need then your real life English fluency
coach and every said today we are
learning with a scene from friends we go
back to the past to see what it was like
for the game celebrating Thanksgiving
with their family as teenagers and as
you can imagine not only we laugh but
you'll be learning a ton of vocabulary
and culture related to celebrating
Thanksgiving in the United States and as
a bonus today I will be teaching you
more than eleven ways to say thank you
like an American
so first let's watch the scene
Monica I think Rachel's here
not me chip and I broke up
oh well what happened well you know how
my parents are out of town and chip was
gonna come over yeah yeah and you're
gonna give you your flower Monica can
you just call it sex it really creeps me
out when you call it that okay and by
the way while we're at it a guy's thing
is not called his tenderness believe me
everyone this is Chandler my roommate
and lead singer of our band Ross oh this
is Monica I'm Ross's little sister okay
I'm so glad you could come Chad I've got
plenty of food so I hope you're hungry
mom Chandler hates Thanksgiving and
doesn't eat any Thanksgiving food Oh
oh I'm so glad you brought him here then
Chandler um if you want I can make you
some macaroni and cheese for dinner
well so long as the pilgrims didn't eat
it then I'm in damn it
so uh Rach does it doesn't feel weird
around here now you know since I've been
away at college oh not really that's
cool so I cannot believe chip dumped me
for that Nancy Branson I am never
going out with him again you know I
don't care how much he begs
I think his begging days are over now
he's going out with Nancy Branson you
know what I've just had it with high
school boys they're just silly they're
just silly stupid boys I'm gonna start
dating men but I'm sorry Judy I couldn't
find that ball you and Jack we're
looking for call their mom and dad you
loser
[Music]
hey Chandler
did you like the macaroni and cheese oh
yeah it was great you should be a chef
okay
all that stuff about Nancy Branson being
a was all a rumor so chip dumped
her and he wants to come over to my
house tonight oh that's so great oh if
you and chip do it tonight
um promise me you'll tell me everything
Oh totally totally you know it's not
that big a deal we already kind of did
it once you know I know no this time
you're gonna definitely know whether or
not you did it you know and she promised
that this time it would last at least
for an entire song so I'm thinking of
asking Rachel out tonight it'll may be
playing her in that song we wrote last
week emotional knapsack yeah right on oh
but don't take too long okay because uh
you know we're gonna test out our fake
IDs tonight right Clifford Alverez
listen rolled in Chang well I may be out
with her all night dude don't do that to
me
oh no it's cool you can stay here my
parents won't mind no it's not that I
just wanna be stuck here all night with
your fat sister
hey Monica why don't you finish off
these bags I don't have any more room in
the fridge
oh no thank you
well Judy you did it she's finally full
I called you fat I don't even remember
that well I do I'm so sorry
I really am but come on I was an idiot
back then I rushed the stage at a Wham
concert for crying out loud
alright I hope you already really
enjoyed watching that scene with
subtitles and in just a little bit we
are going to break it down so that you
can really understand all of the most
difficult subtleties of it but before we
do that you know you probably find it
really boring in English to always say
the same thing right and that is why I
want to teach you 11 different ways to
say thank you so you can add a little
bit of variety and fun to your English
and feel a little bit more like a native
speaker if that is your goal so let's
get started the very first one I'm sure
you've heard this before it's just a
shortening of thank you - thanks and we
need to say this all the time you can
use it in virtually any situation with
formal in your job or with your friends
but maybe you want to take it a little
bit further so we actually have some
things that we can add on to this for
example thanks so much
or thanks very much but if you want to
say something even more like an American
you could say thanks a bunch and if
you're really thankful another term that
we might use is I can't thank you enough
and that means that really you don't
have any way to give them enough thanks
for this thing that they did for you and
it could sound a little bit exaggerated
at times but when you find yourself in a
situation when saying thank you isn't
enough that can be a really great
alternative all right and let's move on
the next one would be Cheers
maybe you've heard this before it's not
so common in the United States it's much
more common for Brits and Australians
example but I find myself using this a
lot it's probably because I've spent a
lot of time with British and Australian
people but you might want to also add
that to your vocabulary especially if
you're going to one of those countries
and the next one which you can use in a
very similar way to thanks or tears is I
appreciate it and to give you an example
if someone does you a favor or if
someone hands you something at work that
you ask them for you could say thanks so
much I really appreciate it or you could
just say I appreciate your taking the
time to do that and very similarly to
this one that I really like to say is
I'm grateful for that
or I'm grateful for it and obviously
this comes from gratitude it's super
appropriate right now being that it's
Thanksgiving because a tradition we have
in the United States is that during the
big feast of Thanksgiving we might go
around the table before eating and each
person says something that they're
really grateful for this year so you'd
say for example I'm really grateful that
my family and myself and my good friends
are all healthy and living good lives
and another thing we can add on to this
that just takes it to a much higher
level of gratitude is saying I am
eternally grateful
it totally means forever so it means
that for my entire life for all time I
will be grateful for what you did
so obviously you would want to save this
one for something that is really special
all right then another kind of similar
one is that if someone does something
very nice for you you can say it means a
lot to me and basically what that saying
is that this thing that they did for you
or the thing that they gave you has a
great significance to you so for example
if someone gave you a present that was
very well thought out you might say it
means a lot to me that you went for the
effort to do that for me obviously this
would have a little bit higher degree
than just saying thanks or Cheers all
right and the next two are also quite
similar one that we use all the time
is that was very kind of you which means
that it was nice of this person to do
this thing so that was very kind of you
and then on a similar note we can add
other adjectives here so we could say it
was great of you it was awesome of you
or one of the most common ones with this
is to say it was very thoughtful of you
so some relate to how I said when you
use it means a lot to me you could say
it was very thoughtful of you to get me
this tremendous present maybe someone
really looked all over for something
that you have been searching for or they
actually made you something by hand that
was very thoughtful meaning that they
had thought a lot about the present that
they were going to get you or the thing
that they did for you
so with holidays coming up this might be
one that you'll find handy alright maybe
you want some other ones that you can
use with your friends or your workmates
you could say to someone when they do
something that you're thankful for
you're the best
or you're awesome or you're great all
these would be kind of similar ways of
saying that thank you and a bit of a
different way so obviously that means
when you say someone you're the best
you're just saying that you are my
favorite person you are the best person
because you did this thing for me I use
that one a lot when someone does me a
big favor or gives me some really great
advice I say you're the best I don't
know how I would have gone through this
problem without your help and the next
one which is also one that we use very
commonly when someone gives you
something or helps you out with
something is oh you shouldn't have which
means that you're saying that I'm really
thankful that you did this thing but you
didn't even have to
that's how grateful I am so you might
have a similar way of saying this in
your language and it's another one that
you can use quite often it's a little
bit more of a degree of thanks than just
saying thanks or Cheers or I appreciate
that is saying oh you shouldn't have
so to give even a degree further if
someone does something so fantastic for
you that it leaves you speechless you
can't even think of the words to thank
this person then you can say exactly
that I don't know what to say and then
the last one the eleventh one even
though maybe I've said more than eleven
at this point is I owe you one now I
would use this a lot with friends you
could also do it with like a workmate
probably not so much to your boss though
because basically when you say I owe you
one
it means that you have a debt to that
person so for example if someone gives
you money but they expect for you to pay
that money back at a later time
you would owe them so what we're saying
here is I'm thankful that you did this
thing to to MIT for me and at some point
in the future I will have to repay this
thing that you did for me although
sometimes we kind of just use this
figuratively it doesn't literally mean
that you have a debt to this person that
you have to do them some favor in the
future but it can be a nice way of
showing appreciation that we natives
often use to say thank you in a
colloquial way all right and the best
way to remember new vocabulary is to use
it so if you want to practice these and
you're enjoying this lesson you could
say thanks to me down in the comments
below using one of these new expressions
that you used all right and I look
forward to reading those and not even
correct some of your examples and now we
are going to jump into the breakdown of
the scene from friends but first really
quickly I just wanted to remind you that
if you are new here and you have
yet subscribe that we make lessons like
this for you every single week to help
you on your path to fluency so you can
understand fast speaking natives without
getting lost
simply press that subscribe button below
and be sure to also hit the bell because
you'll get the notifications when our
newest lessons come out all right now
let's jump into the breakdown of the
scene for friends I'll get it to get
something in this case means to answer
the door we can also say this when we
answer the phone
Thanksgiving a special national holiday
celebrated in North America on the
fourth Thursday of November on
Thanksgiving Day people gather with
family give thanks for everything in
their lives and have a big family dinner
me chip and I broke up chip and I broke
up chip and I broke up break up with
someone to end a romantic relationship
with someone example I'm so sad to hear
Lucy broke up with Kevin well you know
how my parents are out of town and chip
was gonna come over to be out of town if
someone is out of town he or she is
temporarily away from home traveling
example I miss my wife and kids when I
was out of town for two weeks come over
saying are you coming over is the same
as are you coming to my house similarly
to have someone over means to invite
someone to come to one's home for a meal
party visit cards the evening etc
example we'd love to have you come over
for dinner someday yeah and you're gonna
give me no flower
flower you know flower
uh yeah and you're gonna give me no
flower Monica can you just call it sex
it really creeps me out when you call it
that creep someone out if something or
someone creeps you out it or they give
you an unpleasant feeling of fear or
unease okay by the way while we're at it
a guy's thing is not called his
tenderness while you're at it used for
telling someone to do something while
they are doing something else example
are you watching that popular American
series while you're at it why don't you
take some notes so you can improve your
English
someone's thing we can use this to refer
to a person's genitals in a vague way
flower tenderness as you might notice
these are funny ways in which Monica
calls a woman and a man's sexual organs
tender means soft this is humorous
because they sound childish and too
innocent for someone her age to use
these words as Rachel points out
sweetheart an endearing term used to
refer to someone you care about it is
most often used by older women everyone
this is Chandler my roommate and lead
singer of our band roommate this is the
most common word to refer to someone you
live with who is not a family member
although this term contains the word
room it does not necessarily mean that
you share the same room with this person
it could be someone you share an entire
apartment or house with example I live
in a huge beautiful apartment downtown
but I have three roommates lead singer
the main singer in a band where more
than one person's voice can be heard in
their songs example Freddie Mercury was
the lead singer of Queen I'm Ross's
little sister
I'm Ross's little sister we use little
with sister or brother to say it that
one is younger in age than her sibling
in contrast the older sibling would be
the big brother or sister example my big
brother lives in London and my little
sister still lives with her parents
channel laughs and says okay in a
sarcastic tone because although Monica
is Ross's younger sister she is quite
big or in other words fat I'm so glad
you could come I'm so glad you could
come I'm so glad you could come chat
they've got plenty of food
I got plenty of food I've got plenty of
food so I hope you're hungry
plenty of something a large number or
amount of something example there's
plenty of food for everyone Chandler um
if you want I can make you some macaroni
and cheese for dinner macaroni and
cheese macaroni is a type of pasta in
the shape of an elbow the popular
American dish macaroni and cheese
consists of this type of pasta with a
creamy cheese sauce it's super tasty I
recommend you try out well so long as
the pilgrims didn't eat it then I'm in
as long as used to say that something
will happen if something else happens we
say this when mentioning something that
is usually the condition for something
else to take place for example if you
say I'll eat the pizza as long as it
doesn't have pineapple on it you are
saying that for you to eat the pizza the
condition is that it does not have
pineapple pilgrims people who make a
journey usually to a holy place for a
religious reason Thanksgiving is a
holiday based on the tradition of the
pilgrims who emigrated to America from
England in the 1600s so in the USA we
think of the pilgrims as the first
settlers of the country for reasons
related to trauma from his childhood
days Chandler hates Thanksgiving so he
is saying that he will eat macaroni and
cheese on the condition that it doesn't
have anything to do with Thanksgiving or
in other words what the pilgrims
traditionally ate I'm in used to say
that you're eager to take part in
something at
is being discussed example a heavy metal
concert for free I'm in oh I cannot
believe chip dumped me for that
Nancy Branson dumped to break up with
your significant other that is your
boyfriend or girlfriend offensive
word to refer to a woman who has many
sexual partners I am never going out
with him again you know I don't care how
much he begs beg to keep asking someone
for something even when they have said
no many times example Michael begged the
boss not to fire him
but he decided he had had enough alright
we hope you are having an awesome time
already learning with the scene from
friends and if you want to understand
fast speaking natives without getting
lost and understanding all of the jokes
then I highly recommend you check out
our free three-part mini course because
it will teach you our methodology for
learning English with TV series so that
you can do all of these things and have
a really fun time getting real English
fluency you can learn more about that by
clicking up here at the top now let's
get back to the rest of the lesson you
know I've just had it with high school
boys they're just silly they're just
silly stupid boys to have it with
something used to say that you're not
going to tolerate something anymore and
you're ready to do something about it
example I've had it with the people next
door who keep playing loud music I'm
calling the police
silly used to refer to someone who's
foolish or stupid we also use this word
to describe an action that lacks of good
judgment example making a $2,000 bet was
a very silly thing to do I'm gonna start
dating men I'm gonna start dating men
I'm gonna start dating men did you like
the macaroni and cheese did you like the
macaroni and cheese did you like the
macaroni and cheese oh yeah it was great
you should be a chef okay
you should be a chef we can compliment
someone by saying that they do something
so well that they could be a
professional for example if someone
shows you a beautiful photo they took on
their phone you would complement them by
saying you should be a photographer
however here this is funny because as
fans know as an adult Monica does work
as a chef which means that she took
Chandler's compliment literally guess
what common way to introduce a piece of
news example guess what I got a hundred
percent on my English exam and he wants
to come over to my house tonight and he
wants to come over to my house tonight
and he wants to come over to my house
tonight if you and chip do it tonight um
miss meal tell me everything
Oh totally totally you know it's not
that big a deal it's not that big a deal
it's not that big a deal that we already
kind of did it once students totally use
sometimes as an alternative to yes
example are you joining us at the gym
tomorrow Oh totally not that big of a
deal
used to say that something is not as
important as it might appear to be
example they just lost a game but it's
not a big deal they're still gonna win
the whole tournament do it to have sex
example they did it on the couch and she
promised that this time it would last at
least for an entire song it will last at
least for an entire song again it's here
refers to sex so Rachel's boyfriend
means that their intercourse will go for
as long as a song that they are
listening to which is funny because
obviously that is a short amount of time
so I'm thinking of asking Rachel and
tonight ask someone else to invite
someone on a date example if you like
Patricia so much you should ask her out
it'll may be playing her in that song we
wrote last week emotional knapsack yeah
knapsack another word for backpack this
is funny because in motion
knapsack is quite a ridiculous name for
a song right on right on right on right
on an indication of support enthusiasm
agreement or encouragement example I was
thinking we could ordered pizza right on
sounds good to me
it is also used to mean exactly correct
example her predictions were right on oh
but don't take too long okay because uh
you know we're gonna test out our fake
IDs tonight right Clifford Alverez take
long if something takes long a lot of
time passes example cooking this dish
takes a really long I DS a document card
etc that has your name and other
information about you and the often
includes your photograph fake means not
real and the USA fake IDs are not
uncommon as the age for legal alcohol
consumption is late 21 while most people
begin drinking before they are old
enough and thus use this to buy alcohol
illegally or to enter bars or clubs but
no it's cool you can stay here my
parents won't mind not mine if you don't
mind something you don't think that
something will be a problem if you mind
you do example I don't mind cooking a
bit too much because I can always save
some for the next day I mind not cooking
enough because then I'm still hungry
after I finish eating Monica why don't
you finish off these I don't have
any one room in the fridge finish off to
use the last of something example I have
had enough of this steak and I can't
continue eating the dog will be happy to
finish it off example she finished off
the Kleenex can you buy more room
available space in a place or container
example there isn't enough room in the
car for six people
no thank you well Judy you did it she's
finally full to be full if you're fool
you are not hungry anymore
I'm so sorry I really am but come on I
was an idiot back then back then used to
refer to a time in the past example back
then when the economy was better I was
able to afford twice as much as today
with my salary I rushed the stage at a
Wham concert for crying out loud
rush the stage at a concert when the
audience forces itself onto the stage
with the band people are sometimes
accidentally injured when this happens
Wham a globally popular 80s English
musical duo check out this clip from one
of their music videos and you will see
will hi it is funny to imagine Chandler
rushing the stage at their concert
[Music]
[Applause]
for crying out loud
expression used to show that something
is really unbelievable example for
crying out loud you made me wait for you
at the restaurant for two hours example
I've been studying English at the school
for two years for crying out loud why am
I not fluent yet Monica I think Rachel's
here cheap and I broke up well what
happened well you know how my parents
are out of town and chip was gonna come
over yeah yeah and you're gonna give me
your flower Monica can you just call it
sex it really creeps me out when you
call it that okay by the way while we're
at it a guy's thing is not called his
tenderness believe me
everyone this is Chandler my roommate
and lead singer of our band Ross oh this
is Monica I'm Ross's little sister okay
I'm so glad you could come channel I've
got plenty of food so I hope you're
hungry mom Chandler hates Thanksgiving
and doesn't eat any Thanksgiving food oh
oh I'm so glad you brought him here then
hey Chandler um if you want I can make
you some macaroni and cheese for dinner
well so long as the pilgrims didn't eat
it then I'm in damn it
so uh Rach does it doesn't feel weird
around here now you know since I've been
away at college oh not really well
that's cool so I cannot believe chip
dumped me for that Nancy Branson I
am never going out with him again you
know I don't care how much he begs
I think his begging days are over now
he's going out with Nancy Branson you
know what I've just had it with high
school boys they're just silly they're
just silly stupid boys I'm gonna start
dating men but I'm sorry Judy I couldn't
find that ball you and Jack we're
looking for call them mom and dad you
loser
hey Chandler
did you like the macaroni and cheese oh
yeah it was great you should be a chef
okay all that stuff about Nancy Branson
being a was all a rumor so chip
dumped her and he wants to come over to
my house to know that it's so if you and
chip do it tonight um promise me he'll
tell me everything
Oh totally totally you know it's not
that big a deal we already kind of did
it once you know I know no this time
you're gonna definitely know whether or
not you did it you know and she promised
that that this time it would last at
least for an entire song so I'm thinking
of asking Rachel out tonight you know
maybe playing her that song we wrote
last week emotional knapsack yeah right
on oh but don't take too long okay
because uh you know we're gonna test out
our fake IDs tonight right Clifford
Alverez
listen rolled in Chains go well I may be
out with her all night dude don't do
that to me oh no it's cool you can stay
here my parents won't mind no it's not
that I just wanna be stuck here all
night with your fat sister hey Monica
why don't you finish off these I
don't have any more room in the fridge
Oh No thank you
well Judy you did it she's finally full
I called you fat I don't even remember
that well I do I'm so sorry I really am
but come on I was an idiot back then I
wrecked the stage at a Wham concert for
crying out laughing thanks so much for
joining us today I hope you laughed a
ton the second time around I hope that
this lesson has helped you to learn some
good new vocabulary some different ways
to say thank you and to be able to
understand the native speakers a little
bit better and be sure to subscribe so
you can get our newest lessons every
single week also be sure to check out
that free three-part mini course I
totally Belson you can understand native
speakers without getting lost and
without missing the jokes and finally I
have another lesson but with
Thanksgiving I think that you'll really
enjoy it now as always go out there and
kick ass in the very lush